 University of Southern California Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Executive Education Graduate Certificate Programs Online Learning Departments Department of Governance and Management Department of Health Policy and Management Department of Public Policy Wilbur H. Smith III Department of Real Estate Development Department of Urban Planning and Spatial Analysis Admission Research Faculty Career Services About Our History Interim Dean Dana Goldman Messages from the Dean Students On a Mission Life in Los Angeles More News COVID-19 Updates Current Students Parents Alumni ROTC Global Engagement Our Podcasts Faculty Blog Student Events Calendar Virtual Events Give Now Menu Search in https://priceschool.usc.edu/ Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Executive Education Graduate Certificate Programs Online Learning Departments Department of Governance and Management Department of Health Policy and Management Department of Public Policy Wilbur H. Smith III Department of Real Estate Development Department of Urban Planning and Spatial Analysis Admission Research Faculty Career Services About Our History Interim Dean Dana Goldman Messages from the Dean Students On a Mission Life in Los Angeles More News COVID-19 Updates Current Students Parents Alumni ROTC Programs Global Engagement Our Podcasts Faculty Blog Student Events Calendar Virtual Events Give Now Wndi Bruine de Bruin Provost Professor of Public Policy, Psychology, and Behavioral Science contact information degrees expertise biographical sketch publications related tags Contact Information Email: wandibdb@usc.edu Curriculum Vitae Degrees PhD Behavioral Decision Research and Psychology Carnegie Mellon University Expertise Psychology of risk, behavioral decision making, age differences in decision-making competence and well-being, communications and behavior change interventions for promoting health, well-being, safety, and sustainability Biographical sketch Wndi Bruine de Bruin is a Provost Professor of Public Policy, Psychology, and Behavioral Science. She has published more than 120 peer-reviewed publications on public perceptions of risk, as well as understanding and informing decision making, on topics such as personal health, sustainability and climate change, as well as household finances. Across USC, she holds affiliations with the Sol Price School of Public Policy, the Department of Psychology, the Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, the Center for Economic and Social Research, and the Center for Sustainability Solutions, and the National Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) . She is a member of the editorial boards of the Journal of Experimental Psychology:Applied, the Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, Decision, Medical Decision Making, the Journal of Risk Research, and Psychology and Aging. Her research on age differences in decision making was recently covered by Psychology Today and the BBC Worlds Why Factor . She has served on expert panels for the National Academy of Sciences on Communicating Science Effectively and for the Council of the Canadian Academies on Health Product Risk Communication . With colleagues in the Center for Economic and Social Research, she is running a national longitudinal survey to track symptoms, risk perceptions, protective behaviors, food insecurity, and political polarization during the COVID-19 pandemic in the US. She is also on the team that is running the 2020 election tracking poll . Affiliated Research Centers and programs: Department of Psychology Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics Center for Economic and Social Research Center for Sustainability Solutions National Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) View the full list of Wndis publications Read more Selected publications Kapteyn, A., Angrisani, M., Bennett, D., Bruine de Bruin, W., Darling, J., Gutsche, T., Liu, Y., Meijer, E., Perez-Arce, F., Schaner, S., Thomas, K., & Weerman, B. [The CESR COVID-19 Task Force] , Tracking the Effect of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the Lives of American Households ; Survey Research Methods , 14, 179-186 ; 2020 . Del Missier, F., Hansson, P., Parker, A. M., Bruine de Bruin, W., & Mntyl, T. , Decision-making competence in older adults: A rosy view from a longitudinal investigation ; Psychology and Aging , 35, 553-564 ; 2020 . De la Haye, K, Miller, S, Weber, K, Wilson, J, & Bruine de Bruin, W. , The Impact of COVID-19 on Food Insecurity in Los Angeles County: April to May 2020 ; White Paper, USC Public Exchange ; 2020 . Lamy, J., Azevedo, I., Morgan, M.G., & Bruine de Bruin, W. , Keep Wind Projects Close? A Case Study of Distance, Culture, and Cost in Offshore and Onshore Wind Energy Siting ; Energy Research & Social Science , 63, doi: 10.1016/j.erss.2019.101377 ; 2020 . Del Missier, F., Galfano, G., Venerus, E., Ferrara, D., Bruine de Bruin, W., & Penolazzia, B. , Decision-Making Competence in Schizophrenia ; Schizophrenia Research, 215, 457-459 ; 2020 . Bruine de Bruin, W., Galesic, M., Parker, A.M., & Vardavas, R. , The Role of Social Circle Perceptions in False Consensus About Population Statistics: Evidence from a National Flu Survey ; Medical Decision Making , 40, 235-241 ; 2020 . Bruine de Bruin, W., Parker, A.M., & Fischhoff, B. , Decision-Making Competence: More than Intelligence? ; Current Directions in Psychological Science, 29, 186-192 ; 2020 . Bruine de Bruin, W., Parker, A.M., & Strough, J. , Age Differences in Reported Social Networks and Well-Being ; Psychology and Aging, 35, 159-168 ; 2020 . Kause, A., Bruine de Bruin, W., Fung, F., Taylor, A., & Lowe, J. , Visualizations of Projected Rainfall Change in the United Kingdom: An Interview Study about User Perceptions ; Sustainability, 12, 1-21 ; 2020 . Bruine de Bruin, W., & Bennett, D. , Relationships between Initial COVID-19 Risk Perceptions and Protective Health Behaviors: A National Survey ; American Journal of Preventive Medicine , 59, 157-167 ; 2020 . More publications Related tags Environment Health Care USC Price School of Public Policy USC Sol Price School of Public Policy Ralph and Goldy Lewis Hall 312 Los Angeles, California 90089-0626 (213) 740-6842 | admissions@price.usc.edu Price School Intranet Price School Webmail Faculty Jobs Faculty Publications Research Centers and Initiatives Privacy Notice Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Facebook Twitter Podcasts 
